[helicopter whirring]
[music]
-We were a Black Ops team frequently
on special assignment behind enemy lines.
We trusted each other without question.
We had to . . .
or we wouldn't make it home alive.
[music]
The intelligence community was hot
on the trail of Nasir al-Wuhayshi,
the second in command of Al
-Qaeda.
One of his lieutenants
had been turned by the CIA
and was willing to give up
Nasir's location
in exchange for amnesty.
Our team was sent in
to extract this intel,
but something about this whole thing
just didn't sit right with me.
Things were too quiet,
too easy.
-That's our, guy.
All clear.
Let's go.
-Allahu Akbar!
-[gunshots]
Ambush, down, down,
down, down. Down. Get down!
Fire, fire, fire.
Logan's hit!
-Get down!
-Down, down down, covering fire.
[gunshots]
-Allahu Akbar!
-We got to get
outta here . . .
-there might be more coming!
-We have incoming!
-Come on, man, let's go.
Let's go. Come on, let's go.
Get up. Get up. Come on.
[gunshots]
-God, help! We need help!
-Allahu Akbar!
[gunshots]
-On this mission, I learned one thing,
nightmares really do come true.
I'm Denver McCabe
and this is my story.
[music]
After that mission went sideways,
me and my men ran for our lives.
Since then,
I found myself never able to stop running.
I was once one of the most
respected men in my field.
If you had told me back then
where my choices,
my pride, and my response to the guilt
that I felt would cause me to end up,
I would have laughed at you,
but when I met my worst fears head-on,
I soon discovered
that I wasn't nearly as strong of a man
as I thought I was.
The flashbacks, the nightmares consumed me
and I couldn't control myself.
My poor wife bore
the brunt of the pain.
When I think of the times
that I made that little woman cry,
it causes my face to burn with shame.
Without a word late in the night,
I left her and never looked back.
She didn't deserve the monster
that I had become.
I ran for months fast and hard,
but before long,
I was living on the street
and completely worthless to society,
but I took advantage of the generosity
of others as much as possible.
A man's got to be able to try
to survive and keep on running.
My life was a mess.
I spent most of the money on booze
so that I could try to bury my pain
in the bottom of a bottle.
I thought I could drown my memories,
but whenever I would come to,
I'd find myself in some gutter,
filthy,
wretched,
and still halted by my past.
[gunshots]
[screams]
The mission had failed.
It was my fault.
I should have foreseen that ambush.
I knew something was off from the get-go.
I could feel it in my gut.
-Allahu Akbar!
[gunshots]
-Logan, Cooper, my men,
my friends.
Keep your head down!
Over here, hurry up.
Put pressure on it.
-Are we clear?
-Yes, we're clear.
-He's hurt bad.
-I got two high in the back.
I got ammo, I can hold them off.
Y'all got to go.
-We are not leaving you here.
We came in together,
we're going out together.
-Guys, I'm going to slow you down.
I'm good on ammo,
I can hold them off.
-Contact 12 o'clock!
[gunshots]
-Okay, where are we?
-I'm not sure, let me check.
-More hostiles inbound!
[gunshots]
-Boys, we're cut off
from our extraction point.
We're gonna have to find
another place to get out of here.
According to this map, there is
a farmhouse two clicks to the north.
We've gotta head in that direction.
Hand me your comms.
Bravo Team 1,
we've got a man down.
We've got a new extraction,
southwest by northwest 4796243.
-We can't hold them for much longer!
-Allahu Akbar!
-They're closing in, guys.
They're closing in.
-Go, go, go, I got them.
I'll hold them off.
Go, go. Go on, get out of here.
Go, go, I'll cover you!
I'll cover you, go, go, go.
[gunshots]
-Allahu Akbar!
-I remember hearing the gunfire
in the distance go silent.
I knew that meant only one thing,
Logan was dead,
and I blamed myself for that.
We should have died together.
We should have never left him there.
[music]
After months of searching,
I finally found his grave.
The guilt and regret that washed over me
is impossible to describe.
I lost count on the times
I went to visit him,
and with tears,
begged him to forgive me.
He had laid down his life
so that we could live.
And every time I remembered
how he sacrificed himself
without hesitation,
it broke me even more.
He was a good man
with so much to live for.
Why should a man
like that have to die?
It should have been me . . .
but Logan was more than a good man.
He was a Christian.
I lost track of the times
at night out on patrol
that he would tell me of the change
that God had made in him.
He often tried to get me
to give my life to Christ,
but I told him that wasn't for me.
Now he was dead
and I was still here.
[music]
I needed another drink.
I needed to bury my pain.
I needed relief
from the regret and the shame,
but when you're homeless and broke,
that's easier said than done.
The rejection from society
made me angry and frustrated,
but strangely enough,
I eventually came to accept it.
Anybody that had done the things
that I had done deserved nothing less.
Before long,
the booze wasn't strong enough,
I needed something more.
I'd heard about Marco,
a man on the street that could get you
anything you wanted.
Of course, it came with a price.
The rules were simple.
If I helped him,
he would help me,
so I agreed
and he helped me.
He helped me lose track of time.
He helped me forget who I was.
He helped me
become addicted to things
that the human body
was never meant to have.
[music]
He helped me sleep for the first time
in what felt like forever,
and in turn,
I helped him hurt good people.
People that didn't deserve
what we were doing to them.
Marco would steal their identities
and max out their credit cards
before they even knew it.
I didn't care
so long as I got what I needed
to satisfy my cravings
and slip back into oblivion
where nightmares didn't exist.
This cycle of crime
and drugs became a blur.
Marco took good care of me
because I was known as the man
who could always get the job done,
but it wasn't long
before the pills weren't enough either.
The desire to escape reality
was more than I could handle.
Marco introduced me to stronger
and more powerful ways to deal
with my depression and anxiety.
I knew it was dangerous,
but I didn't care.
[music]
I was in a very dark place.
I needed money bad.
I did whatever I had
to do to get it
and it made me reckless and desperate.
-Stop right there.
-Hey.
-Stop.
Zebra 6, he's running,
he's running, he's running!
-I ran but I was trapped.
-Stop! Stop!
-Aargh.
-Come on, man!
-Stop.
-I wasn't doing nothing, man, come on!
Come on. I served my country.
I don't deserve to be treated like this.
Keep your hands off of me!
[police radio]
-Get in the car . . .
-It was time that
I answered for my deeds.
My sin had finally caught up with me.
For the first time, I was scared.
How would I be able to function or live
without having access to the substances
that I had become so dependent on?
I was locked up and placed
under a constant watch
in case I showed any signs of self-harm.
The withdrawals were pure agony.
I felt hopeless and angry.
I hated my life.
[music]
As I sat in jail slowly growing sober,
I was surprised one day
to receive a letter.
When I saw the handwriting
on the envelope,
it melted me.
It was from my wife, Lisa.
I could hear her loving voice
through the words,
and they pierced my heart like a knife.
-Dear Denver,
The police came by the other day
and told me what happened to you.
They gave me your address
and encouraged me to reach out to you.
They said they'd let you out early
if you had good behavior.
Please come home to me.
I've met Jesus,
and he changed my life.
He can do the same for you.
I love you, Denver,
but you can't live like this anymore.
You know you can't.
I beg you to find some help
before it's too late.
Please know that I'll be praying
for you every day until you do.
Love forever and always,
Lisa.
-She sent me a steady flow of letters
like this knowing I received them,
but I could never bring myself
to write her back.
I didn't know what to say.
I did not deserve her.
When I got out of jail,
going home to my
wife was not an option.
She had said over and over
that she wanted me back,
but there was no way
she could have meant that.
The farther I walked,
the more I felt
a tingling rush through me
to feed my uncontrollable cravings
with what I had missed out on
for the past six months.
Before long,
I was back to my old ways.
I had to track down Marco.
It had been too long.
Maybe he could set me up again
and help me bury everything
that haunted me.
I owed him money,
but maybe he'd forgotten about it
since I was so good at
what I did . . .
But the man was ruthless.
Once he heard I was back on the streets --
jail or not,
he wanted his money,
period.
There would be no more drugs
or nights of silence for me.
I was getting nothing from him.
I became desperate,
and I begged him for mercy.
-Get your hands off me,
you human piece of debris!
-No, I can't take it no more.
-Boys, beat that boy down!
-No, you know me!
[screams]
In that moment, I discovered that
I was completely broken.
The more they beat me,
the more I welcomed it.
This was what I deserved.
-You didn't have to make it
so difficult, McCabe.
All I wanted was my Benjamins,
but you know what?
I hope you die.
I never want to see you again!
-As I lay there gasping for breath,
what I feared the most,
gripped my soul . . .
The overwhelming guilt of my worst memory.
-All right, I'm clear.
-Yeah, I think we're clear.
-We got to move.
-Yes, sir.
-Let's go in this building.
[distant gunshots]
-I'm coming. I'm coming.
-Clear.
-Cooper.
-Cooper!
Cooper had taken
a round to the chest.
I didn't even know it until he collapsed.
He was bleeding out . . . bad.
-Ugh.
-Easy. Lay down right here.
Easy. Lay back. Lay back. Lay back.
Easy.
-I'm not gonna make it back
from this one.
-Stop talking like that, you hear me?
Stop talking . . .
Listen to me. Stop it.
[spits] [grunts]
-You're going to be all right.
-Tell Molly and children I love them,
I'll see them soon.
[breaths heavily]
Give this to my wife.
-Allahu Akbar!
-Look out!
[gunshots]
-Hang on. I'll get you outta here
in less than five minutes.
-I've told you before, I'm ready.
Are you?
-Don't worry about me, I'll be fine.
You hang on.
Cooper?
Cooper.
Cooper!
[screams]
[disorientated]
Ugh.
Cooper and Logan were dead,
and I blamed myself for that.
It should have been me.
I wished it had been me.
The most gut-wrenching thing
that I have ever done in my life
was to fulfill Cooper's dying request.
[music - no audible dialogue this scene]
To look at that woman and her son
knowing that I was the one
who was responsible for his death.
This is what haunted me most of all.
Now I lay broken,
helpless in absolute bondage
to the guilt of my past,
but little did I realize
that my precious wife
never stopped praying for me.
She didn't know where I was,
but she knew God did.
She couldn't reach me,
but she believed that God could.
I needed help,
and I knew it.
Something had to change.
One day I saw a flyer
on the ground for a recovery center.
To be honest,
I'd always been skeptical
of these kinds of places,
but I figured
it wouldn't hurt to give it a try.
When it was my turn to share,
it was like a floodgate
opened up inside of me.
-I've seen some good men die.
I still see their faces
. . . in my head!
Every night I see their faces
and it just won't go away.
It's driving me crazy;
I don't know how much more I can take!
-It's okay. Really, it's okay.
Let's try to work on these emotions.
These things are things that really
can hurt us from the past here.
Let's try to work on our breathing, okay?
Let's breathe in.
Breathe out.
Come on, everybody, let's help Denver.
Breathe in.
Breathe out.
There now.
Is that better?
-I'm good.
The counselor was sincere,
but my needs were
way out of his league.
I scared most of the people there.
But there was one man
who took an interest in me -
a fellow veteran.
We had a lot in common
as we swapped war stories
and talked about our struggles.
He had compassion on me.
He told me that his mama raised him
to always do good to others in need.
To do unto others
as you'd have them do unto you.
He wanted to help me out
And get me back on my feet.
He couldn't do much,
but he worked construction
and told me that his boss had just bought
an old house from a foreclosure.
They were planning to flip it
in a couple of months,
but for now,
nobody would be there.
I thanked him
because at least it was a roof
over my head for a few weeks
while I tried to sort out my life.
[music]
Down the street was a Catholic church.
Maybe here I could find the answers
and the peace that I was looking for.
I never really thought about
having a relationship with God,
but I kept hearing Logan's voice
in my mind over and over again,
telling me that Jesus loved me
and that I needed to
give my life to him.
Even Cooper talked with me about my soul.
When he faced death,
he was ready to meet God
and believed he would see his family again
in heaven someday.
Both of my men had found peace.
Maybe this is what I needed,
but where could I find Him?
Who was He?
How could He love somebody like me?
What did all this mean?
I believed He was real,
but I didn't understand any of it.
If He really cared,
why did He let me suffer so much pain
through war and killings?
Whoever He was,
He felt a million miles away.
As I sat there,
I felt just as empty and lifeless
as the building and the statues
that surrounded me.
[music]
-I couldn't help but noticing you
around the church, my son.
You seem to be hurt deeply.
It seems like something's weighing . . .
heavily on your soul.
Is there something I can help you with?
-I don't see how.
-I can just imagine
how many people have told me,
"I don't see how,"
but if they would just share and open up
their feelings to someone else -
there might be an avenue
that we can take that might help you
get through this time of anguish
that you're in.
-I've tried just about everything,
to be honest with you.
-You look like a former military man.
I've dealt with a lot of people
that come through our church
that they seem to have lost their way
while they were serving
in Afghanistan . . .
Could you be one of those type?
-I reckon. I got a lot of people killed,
I know that.
-Yes, but you also probably
saved a lot of people.
The Patriot Saint of Warriors
would probably deem you as a hero.
-I'm a lot of things,
but I'm not a hero.
I can tell you that.
-I bet you if we pray to Mary,
Mary can intercede on your behalf
and get you on the right path.
-Pray to Mary?
-Sure.
Mary is the mother of God.
With her,
she has an open forum right
to the Creator of the universe.
If anybody can get you back on a path
where you feel
like you've redeemed yourself
and you're once again whole,
wouldn't that be worth
a bit of your time?
-Redeem myself?
Me, a hero?
I could tell he was trying to be kind,
but the more that man spoke,
the more confused I became.
I don't even think
he believed in it himself.
There was no light in his eyes,
just the same emptiness
that was in his church.
Nothing about God made
any sense to me at all.
He gave me what he called a rosary
saying that it would restore my life
as I prayed through Mary.
But how could a handful of beads
and a dead woman
help me get closer to God?
He kept telling me
that I should be proud of the service
I gave for my country,
but no matter what
he said . . .
one thing was for sure -
I was no hero.
[music]
Bravo Team 1,
we've got a man down.
We've got a new extraction,
southwest by northwest 4796243.
Fire, fire, fire! [gunshots]
[gunshots]
-Oh, God,
I don't know why,
but I feel the strongest urge
to pray for Denver right now.
He needs you.
Please get through to him.
I'm begging you for mercy!
-Go on, get out of here.
Go, go, go, I'll cover you.
I'll cover you, go, go, go.
-Cooper. Cooper? Cooper!
-Some way, somehow, let someone reach him
before it's too late!
[music]
-My guilt was too great
to bear any longer.
My heart felt like it was about
to explode inside of me.
There was only one thing left
I knew I could do
to end all of my pain and suffering.
My life was ruined.
My soul was tormented,
and nothing I tried helped me
to ease the pain.
It was time,
and I deserved it.
This world would be
a whole lot better place
with me gone.
[music]
-Well, Lord, I believe you want me
to go to soulwinning on this street today.
So, would you please open someone's heart
to hear the gospel?
We've had some good visits so far,
but please use me to reach that one soul
who really needs you.
Thank you. In Jesus' name, Amen.
[knock on door]
-What do you want?
-Hey, my name is Warren.
I'm visiting from the Calvary
Baptist Church here in town.
I just thought I'd stop by.
I'm out in the neighborhood knocking doors.
-I'm kind of busy right now.
-I'm sorry, sir, I couldn't hear you.
A car was going by.
-Say what?
-I said I'm kind of busy right now.
-Well,
I'd love to take the time
and share Christ with you.
There's always hope in Jesus.
If I could come back sometime,
I'd love to do that.
-I'm . . . I'm . . . Whatever.
-Whatever?
All right, man.
Hey, listen, let me leave you something.
You have a good one, all right?
-Maybe I shouldn't have turned away
whoever that was,
but I was done.
I just wanted to be left alone.
[music]
I heard whispers from the darkness
calling out to me,
promising rest and silence from the pain.
[music]
[knock on door]
-Good evening, sir.
Listen, you're probably
not going to believe this,
but I really believe God
wants me to talk to you.
-I think so too.
I think so too.
-Can I take a few moments
and share few verses about hope
in Christ with you?
-Yes.
-Come on out.
What's your name, man?
-My name is Denver.
-Denver? I'm Warren.
-Denver McCabe.
-Nice to meet you, Denver.
It's good to see you, man,
I came back because I actually believe
God wants me to show this to you.
It's awkward for me
as it probably is for you, but Denver,
there's a couple of verses
I'd like to share with you
about eternal life.
How you can be sure that
if something happened,
you're going to be with Jesus.
All through the New Testament,
it talks about it,
but I'm going to share some
verses with you . . .
-That old man had no idea
how close I was to pulling the trigger.
He took his worn leather Bible
and began showing me that there was hope.
"For God so loved the world
that he gave his only begotten son,
that whosoever believeth in Him"
that included me -
"should not perish
but have everlasting life."
Being brought close to death
gave me a greater clarity
like I'd never had before.
My life was spared.
This very moment,
God was reaching out to me.
This man showed me from the Bible
what my problem really was.
I was a sinner.
I didn't argue with him about that.
He showed me that the wages
or penalty of sin is death in hell.
I knew this is what I deserved,
but then he showed me
that Jesus Christ was the answer
through His sacrifice on the Cross.
I remembered how Logan
gave his life for me and Cooper
and it all began to
make sense . . .
Jesus died so that I could live!
Three days later, He rose again
and now freely offered me
the gift of eternal life.
-Denver, if you were to have
that gift of eternal life
and you were to
die, where would you go?
-I'd go to Heaven.
-Exactly. If you don't have that gift,
what's going to happen to you?
-I'd go to Hell.
-Would you like that gift of eternal life?
[music]
-Jesus stood in Heaven
with His arms open wide in love
ready to receive me.
"For whosoever shall call upon
the name of the Lord
shall be saved."
Could it really be this simple?
As this man talked to me,
my heart burned within me.
God wasn't a million miles away anymore.
He was right here with us, calling me.
He really loved me.
For the first time in my life,
I found hope.
I found grace.
I found Jesus.
[music]
God,
I need you right now.
My life is a mess.
I've tried everything,
I've done everything . . .
I've got nobody else to turn to.
I believe what You said
about that gift,
and I want that gift.
I need that gift.
I need that eternal life
You were talking about.
Please,
I'm asking you,
I'm begging you to save me right now!
I don't want to go to Hell.
Oh, God, I don't want to
go to hell . . .
Would you please save me?
I beg you.
I beg you in Jesus' name,
save me,
Amen.
-Denver, let me ask you,
did you mean that?
-Yes.
-Amen.
God bless you, buddy. Bless you.
-Thank you.
Thank you for talking to me!
-Yes, sir. But you don't thank me,
you thank God.
Tonight when you go to bed
and you put your head in the pillow,
I want you to think about
the flames of hell,
the burning, the torment
and realize you are not going there.
Jesus saved you.
Learn to say, "Thank you, Jesus."
Can you do that for me?
-Yes, sir.
-God bless you, buddy.
-Amen.
[music]
-The transformation that comes
through true salvation
began in me that very day.
The load of sin had been lifted.
The pain that had consumed me
for so long was finally gone.
I was a new creature in Christ.
Now I had a reason to live.
God led the right people into my life
to help me to grow in the Lord
and get me back on my feet.
The more I read my Bible,
the more changes he produced in me.
There was no longer a desire
for alcohol or drugs.
God in His grace and mercy
began helping me and guiding me.
He filled my heart
with a desire for Him and His Word.
Little by little,
the sins that had defined
my life for so long
He began to take away.
The loneliness was gone,
the guilt was gone,
the nightmares slowly faded,
and never before had I
felt such peace . . .
The thought of facing my wife
after all I had put her through
filled me with uncertainty.
Shame clawed at my insides
when I remembered my last words
of anger and abuse
before I walked out on her
all those years ago.
But would she really take me back?
She said she would, but how?
Why would she?
I gave her nothing but
fear and anguish . . .
But the flag was out.
Was this her way of telling me
that I was welcome home?
I couldn't bear to think of her reaction
to seeing me after all this time.
She had every right to hate me,
but Jesus Christ had saved me.
The least I could do
was let her know
that her prayers had been answered.
I was different.
[music]
God has now given me
the opportunity to reach those
who are just like how I once was.
I've become a preacher of the gospel,
a messenger of hope to those in need.
I testify often
of what God did for me
through the saving power of Jesus Christ,
bringing miraculous deliverance
from a life of homelessness,
crime,
prison,
and years of addiction
to the vices of sin.
I love sharing how that
one of the greatest days in my life
after I got saved
was when I was able to visit
the veteran cemetery
without the guilt and regrets of the past.
I was forgiven
and my sins and past mistakes
were under the blood of Jesus Christ.
I was able to take Lisa
to the graves of my men
and shared with her how
instrumental they'd been
in sowing the seeds of the Gospel
before they died.
It was their bold witness
and the unceasing prayers
of my precious wife
that ultimately brought me to Christ.
I'm marveled at God's amazing grace
for such a wretch like me!
And I preached to these men
that they too could find hope
through Jesus Christ.
But one night I thought I noticed
a familiar face in the crowd.
Could it be after all these years?
I began to preach
with all of my heart
how God loved each of them,
no matter who they were
or what they had done.
That Jesus stood with the power
and grace to be able to forgive
every single sin no matter how deep,
how dark,
or how depraved the person had become.
By the end of my message,
I locked eyes with that man.
My heart ached for Marco
to come to Christ,
but he had to make this decision himself.
[music]
Ol' Marco raised his hand.
The same hand that had sold me drugs,
the same hand that had stolen from people,
the same hand that nearly had me killed
was now reaching out to a loving Saviour!
My old drug dealer came forward
and melted in my warm embrace.
He was broken from the years
of such a hard life.
But he was tired of running from God,
and here he was ready to be saved.
Together,
we knelt at the old-fashioned altar,
and I had the wonderful privilege
of personally leading Marco to Christ.
Tears streamed down both of our faces
as he too found hope,
Redeeming Hope.
-Thank you for taking the time
to watch our film, Redeeming Hope.
I pray that it deeply touched your heart.
While the story is fictitious,
the events and struggles
portrayed in this film
were inspired by true events
and based on real people
who found hope in Jesus Christ.
Friend,
just as Denver McCabe
and even Marco realized
that they were lost and in desperate need
of the Lord to save their souls,
wouldn't you also like
to come to him by faith
and accept Him
as your personal Saviour?
God loves you. No matter who you are
or what you've done,
Jesus died on the Cross for you
so that you could have peace
and eternal life with Him in Heaven.
God promises in Romans 10:13,
"For whosoever shall call upon
the name of the Lord
shall be saved."
You can be saved right now.
In this moment,
you have a choice,
a personal decision to make.
Will you accept Jesus?
He's ready to receive you
and God is listening,
ready to forgive you.
Please don't wait any longer.
From your heart in faith,
would you bow your head
and sincerely pray with me?
Dear Lord Jesus,
I know that I'm a sinner.
I know I deserve
the penalty for my sins,
but I don't want to
die and go to Hell.
I want to be with You in Heaven.
I believe you died in the cross
and rose again for me.
Please forgive me of my sins.
Come into my heart and save me.
I gladly receive
Your gift of eternal life.
I trust in You
alone to be my Saviour.
Thank you, God,
for Your love and for saving me.
In Jesus' name,
Amen.
Friend,
did you just trust in Jesus Christ
as your personal Saviour?
The Bible plainly teaches
that you can never lose your salvation.
"For whosoever shall call upon
the name of the Lord
shall be saved."
Not maybe or might be,
but shall be.
John 3:16 declares,
"For God so loved the world
that He gave His only begotten Son,
that whosoever believe in Him
should not perish,
but have everlasting life."
You are saved forever!
If you prayed and trusted in Christ today,
we would love to hear from you.
Please contact us
so we can rejoice with you.
We'd be delighted to pray for you
and help you with any questions
that you may have as a Christian.
God bless you! And please share this
wonderful film of redemption . . . of hope -
with as many people
as you possibly can.
[music]